easmounuu. ¹ vn

¹ reique consentaneum est, nihil ut praeclarius ct
ad usum huius scriptoria recte instituendum salu-
brius dici posse videatur. Verba autem eius, quae
Hist. of the D. and F. of the R. Ε. c. LXIII. le-
guntur, haec sunt:

»The name and situation of the emperor John
Cantacuzene might inspira the most lively curio-
sity. His memorials of forty years extend from
the revolt ol the younger Andronicus to his own
abdication of the empirc, and it isohserved, that,
like Moses and Caesar, he was the principal ac-
tor in the acenes which he describes. But in this

eloquent work, wc should yainly seek the sin-
cerity of an hem or a penitens. Retited in a
cloyster from the vices and passione of the world
he presente not a confession, butan apology, of

the life ol* an ambitione statesman. Instead ol „

unsolding the true counsels and characters of men,
he displays tho smooth and specicus surlaoe ol
events, highly varnished with his own praises and
those of his friends. Their motives are always
pure 3 their ends always legitimate: they conspice
and rebel without any views of interest5 and the
violence which they inflict or suffer iscelebrated
, as the spontaneous effect of reason and virtue«

Ser. Bonnae mens. Sept. a. 1828.

 

